# GolangApi

<p>This is a simple, CRUD API written in <b>go</b> programming language. It uses the RESTful API pattern in performing http requests. It has four(4) utility function which handles routing. It performs a series of http request to query a mock database hardcoded in the source code itself. A database functionality will be something to learn as time progresses</p>

<h3>Utility Functions</h3>
<ul>
  <li><strong>getBooks</strong>: This function queries by sending a GET request to the database and returns all matching document found in the database</li>
  <li><strong>getBook</strong>: This function queries the database by sending a GET request to find the document that matches the parameter provided in the request route</li>
  <li><strong>createBook</strong>: This will cre<ate a book, send a POST request and saves the document to the database</li>
  <li><strong>updateBook</strong>: This will find the matching parameter provided in the request route, send a PUT request to the database to update the matching document wherever specified</li>
  <li><strong>deleteBook</strong>: Removes a document from the database by performing a DELETE request when a document is found that matches the route paramter</li>
</ul>

<h3>Standard Library</h3>

<p>The Go standard library is a set of core packages that enhance and extend the language. These packages add to the number of different types of programs you can write without the need to build your own packages or download packages others have published. Some of the packages used in this API includes: 

  <ul>
    <li><strong>encoding/json</strong>: Package json implements encoding and decoding of JSON as defined in RFC 7159. This package also provides handy methods that enables performing CRUD operations in json format. This API utilizes json for performing requests.</li>
    <li><strong>log</strong>: Package log implements a simple logging package. It defines a type, Logger, with methods for formatting output. It also has a predefined 'standard' Logger accessible through helper functions Print[f|ln], Fatal[f|ln], and Panic[f|ln], which are easier to use than creating a Logger manually. That logger writes to standard error and prints the date and time of each logged message. Every log message is output on a separate line: if the message being printed does not end in a newline, the logger will add one. </li>
    <li><strong>net/http</strong>: Package http provides HTTP client and server implementations.</li>
    <li><strong>math/rand</strong>: Package rand implements pseudo-random number generators unsuitable for security-sensitive work.

Random numbers are generated by a Source. Top-level functions, such as Float64 and Int, use a default shared Source that produces a deterministic sequence of values each time a program is run. Use the Seed function to initialize the default Source if different behavior is required for each run. The default Source is safe for concurrent use by multiple goroutines, but Sources created by NewSource are not.</li>
    <li><strong>strconv</strong>: Package strconv implements conversions to and from string representations of basic data types.</li>
    <li><strong>mux</strong>: Package gorilla/mux implements a request router and dispatcher for matching incoming requests to their respective handler.

The name mux stands for "HTTP request multiplexer". Like the standard http.ServeMux, mux.Router matches incoming requests against a list of registered routes and calls a handler for the route that matches the URL or other conditions.</li>
  </ul>
</p>

<p>If you get an error <i>go.mod file not found in curret directory or any parent directory</i> when building this API, run <strong><i>go mod init</i></strong></i>.
